Program is a passive entity and process is a active entity.
The central processor reads instructions from main memory during
the instruction-fetch cycle and both reads and writes data from main memory
during the data-fetch cycle (on a von Neumann architecture ).
Memory-addressing hardware ensures that a process can execute only within its own address space.
Computing environment..
virtualization
cloud-Cloud computing is a type of computing that delivers computing, storage, and even applications as a service across a network
simulation

/*Chapter 2*/
Three views to view operating system
1.The services it provides
2.Interface that it makes available to the users and programmers.
3.Various subsystems and its interconnection.

Operating-system services
Operating system provides services to the execution of program and its users.

System Calls:
System calls provide an interface to the services made available by an operating
system.
System call interface that serves as the link to system calls made available by the
operating system.
Most of the details of the operating-system interface
are hidden from the programmer by the API and are managed by the run-time
support library

Types of system call:
System calls can be grouped roughly into six major categories: process
control, file manipulation, device manipulation, information maintenance,
communications, and protection


Microkernel provides minimal process and memory management in addition to communication facility.
Main function of the micro kernel is to provide communication facility to the client programs and services running in user space.
Types of architecture..
Simple (monolithic)
layered
microkernel
loadable modules
hybrid.


Chapter 3 Process:
Each process is represented by OS as Process control block(PCB).
PCB contains information like:
Process state
Program counter
CPU register
CPU scheduling mechanism
Memory management information
Accounting information
I/O status information

PCB serves as a repository that contains information that vary from process to process.

Threads:
In modern OS concept of process is extended and one process can perform multiple tasks at the same time ie, running multiple threads.
Selection process of the processes residing in the queue is taken care by scheduler.
Two types-
long term scheduler (disk scheduler)- controls the degree of multi programing. Can take more time to decide.
short term scheduler (CPU scheduler). Can't take more time to decide.
Two types of process-
I/O bound- spends most of the time doing I/O job rather computing.
CPU bound- I/O calls infrequent, mostly computation.


The new process consists of a copy of the address space of the original
process.. This mechanism is for easy communication.
Process creation:
Unix - fork()
Windows - CreateProcess()

A process that has terminated, but whose parent has not yet called wait(), is
known as a zombie process.

One of the main purposes of wait() is to wait for completion of child processes.


Any process that does not share data with any other process is independent.
Two fundamental methods of message passing:
shared memory
message passing
Once shared memory is established, all accesses are treated
as routine memory accesses, and no assistance from the kernel is required.
